Update content for Getting Started pages (#9787)
handsontable/handsontable: docs/content/guides/getting-started/events-and-hooks.md

- hooks
---

# Events and Handsontable hooks

[[toc]]

## Overview
Callbacks are used to react before or after actions occur. We refer to them as hooks. Handsontable's hooks share some characteristics with events and middleware, combining them both in a unique structure.

## Events

If you only react to emitted hooks and forget about all their other features, you can treat Handsontable's hooks as pure events. You would want to limit your scope to `after` prefixed hooks, so they are emitted after something has happened and the results of the actions are already committed.

::: only-for react
```jsx
<HotTable afterCreateRow={(row, amount) => {
  console.log(`${amount} row(s) were created, starting at index ${row}`);
}}/>
```
:::

> ```js

Author: its also relevant for react so we can show both ways

> ```js

Reviewer: It's relevant for React if the user knows what does `hot` stand for. In the case of the vanilla version of the docs it's more obvious than in React, where accessing the Handsontable instance is non-trivial.

> ```js

Author: we will add tip about instance everywhere where its mentioned (whole docs), but in separate issue. perhaps trying to make some kind of reusable component.

> ```js

Author: #9838

> ```js

Reviewer 2: I agree with @jansiegel. I don't want the React people to be overwhelmed by `addHook`. You should never need that method, unless you are working on a Handsontable plugin, and `addHook` is already presented there: https://handsontable.com/docs/custom-plugins/

This applies to 3 snippets on this page.

> ```js

Author: Changed

Middleware is a concept known in the JavaScript world from Node.js frameworks such as Express or Koa. Middleware is a callback that can pipe to a process and allow the developer to modify it. We're no longer just reacting to an emitted event, but we can influence what's happening inside the component and modify the process.

::: only-for react

```jsx
<HotTable modifyColWidth={(width, column) => {
    if (column > 10) {
      return 150;
    }
}}/>
```
:::

> ```js

Author: its also relevant for react so we can show both ways

> ```js

Reviewer: Same as https://github.com/handsontable/handsontable/pull/9787#discussion_r953446112

> ```js

Author: [#r953600111](https://github.com/handsontable/handsontable/pull/9787/files#r953600111)

Note that the first argument is the current width that we're going to modify. Later arguments are immutable, and additional information can be used to decide whether the data should be modified.

## Handsontable Hooks

> We refer to all callbacks as "Handsontable hooks" because although they share some characteristics with events and middleware, they combine them both in a unique structure. You may already be familiar with the concept as we're not the only ones that use the hooks convention.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We refer to all callbacks as "Handsontable hooks" because, although they share some characteristics with events and middleware, they combine them both in a unique structure. You may already be familiar with the concept as we're not the only ones that use the hooks convention.
```

> Almost all `before` prefixed handsontable hooks allow the developer to return `false` and, therefore, block the execution of an action. It may be used for validation, rejecting operation by the outside service, or blocking our native algorithm and replace it with a custom implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Almost all `before`-prefixed Handsontable hooks let you return `false` and, therefore, block the execution of an action. It may be used for validation, rejecting operation by the outside service, or blocking our native algorithm and replace it with a custom implementation.
```

Note that the first argument is the current width that we're going to modify. Later arguments are immutable, and additional information can be used to decide whether the data should be modified.

> ## Handsontable Hooks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Handsontable hooks
```

We refer to all callbacks as "Handsontable hooks" because, although they share some characteristics with events and middleware, they combine them both in a unique structure. You may already be familiar with the concept as we're not the only ones that use the hooks convention.

Almost all `before`-prefixed Handsontable hooks let you return `false` and, therefore, block the execution of an action. It may be used for validation, rejecting operation by the outside service, or blocking our native algorithm and replace it with a custom implementation.

A great example for this is our integration with HyperFormula engine where creating a new row is only possible if the engine itself will allow it:

::: only-for react

```jsx
<HotTable
  beforeCreateRow={(row, amount) => {
    if (!hyperFormula.isItPossibleToAddRows(0, [row, amount])) {
      return false;
    }
}}/>
```
:::

> ```js

Author: its also relevant for react so we can show both ways

> ```js

Reviewer: Same as https://github.com/handsontable/handsontable/pull/9787#discussion_r953446112

:::
:::

## All available hooks example
## All available Handsontable hooks example

Note that some callbacks are checked on this page by default.

> ::: only-for javascript

Author: the preview is more important than the code, and the preview is quite useful.
as we will have preview enabled by default it can stay here.

> ::: only-for javascript

Reviewer: I think we may keep it if we hide the `Code` tab altogether. With it being accessible it doesn't make much sense to me. 
WDYT @warpech?

If that's the case, though, we need to remove the commented-out section with the `TODO`.

> ::: only-for javascript

Author: I've implemented the code without example container so no code is visible.

});
```
:::

[//]: # (::: only-for react)

> [//]: # (::: example #example1 :react --css 1 --html 2 --js 3 )

Author: to delete
